README.md, before:

# IsraelGPT 🇮🇱

[![Python 3.11+](https://img.shields.io/badge/python-3.11+-blue.svg)](https://www.python.org/downloads/)
[![discord.py](https://img.shields.io/badge/discord.py-2.3+-5865F2.svg)](https://discordpy.readthedocs.io/)
[![License: MIT](https://img.shields.io/badge/License-MIT-green.svg)](LICENSE)
[![Discord](https://img.shields.io/discord/YOUR_SERVER_ID?color=5865F2&label=Discord&logo=discord&logoColor=white)](https://discord.gg/xXwfcZ6DT9)

A Discord bot with a dash of chutzpah. Moderation, music, economy simulation, leveling, and more.

## Features

- **Moderation** — Ban, kick, mute, role management, anti-spam
- **Music** — YouTube playback via yt-dlp
- **Economy** — Jobs, businesses, properties, class system, nation simulation
- **Leveling** — XP tracking, leaderboards, auto-roles
- **Government** — Elections, taxes, laws, political parties

## Quick Start

```bash
# Clone & setup
git clone https://github.com/yoits9090/Israelgpt.git
cd Israelgpt
cp .env.example .env  # Add your DISCORD_TOKEN

# Run with Docker
docker build -t israelgpt-bot .
docker run -d --env-file .env israelgpt-bot
```

## Configuration

Set these in `.env`:
- `DISCORD_TOKEN` — Bot token from [Discord Developer Portal](https://discord.com/developers/applications)
- `AUTO_ROLE_ID` — Role assigned on member join
- `PRIMARY_GUILD_ID` — Main server ID

## Contributing

PRs welcome. Please open an issue first to discuss major changes.

## License

MIT

Commit message:

Add Prometheus metrics instrumentation and Grafana Cloud integration
Add prometheus_client dependency and instrument bot with metrics for messages, commands, spam detections, errors, and LLM requests. Expose metrics endpoint on configurable port (default 8000).

Update deployment workflow to optionally start Grafana Agent container when Grafana Cloud credentials are provided. Create Docker network for internal communication between bot, autobumper, and metrics agent.

Add METRICS_PORT and optional

README.md, after:

# IsraelGPT 🇮🇱

[![Python 3.11+](https://img.shields.io/badge/python-3.11+-blue.svg)](https://www.python.org/downloads/)
[![discord.py](https://img.shields.io/badge/discord.py-2.3+-5865F2.svg)](https://discordpy.readthedocs.io/)
[![License: MIT](https://img.shields.io/badge/License-MIT-green.svg)](LICENSE)
[![Discord](https://img.shields.io/discord/YOUR_SERVER_ID?color=5865F2&label=Discord&logo=discord&logoColor=white)](https://discord.gg/xXwfcZ6DT9)

A Discord bot with a dash of chutzpah. Moderation, music, economy simulation, leveling, and more.

## Features

- **Moderation** — Ban, kick, mute, role management, anti-spam
- **Music** — YouTube playback via yt-dlp
- **Economy** — Jobs, businesses, properties, class system, nation simulation
- **Leveling** — XP tracking, leaderboards, auto-roles
- **Government** — Elections, taxes, laws, political parties

## Quick Start

```bash
# Clone & setup
git clone https://github.com/yoits9090/Israelgpt.git
cd Israelgpt
cp .env.example .env  # Add your DISCORD_TOKEN

# Run with Docker
docker build -t israelgpt-bot .
docker run -d --env-file .env israelgpt-bot
```

## Configuration

Set these in `.env`:
- `DISCORD_TOKEN` — Bot token from [Discord Developer Portal](https://discord.com/developers/applications)
- `AUTO_ROLE_ID` — Role assigned on member join
- `PRIMARY_GUILD_ID` — Main server ID
- `METRICS_PORT` — Port for Prometheus `/metrics` endpoint (default `8000`)

## Monitoring

- Prometheus metrics are exposed on `http://<host>:METRICS_PORT/metrics`.
- Default port is `8000`; change via `METRICS_PORT` env var.
- In Docker, port `8000` is exposed (map it with `-p 8000:8000` or your chosen port).
- Counters include messages, commands, spam detections, errors, and LLM requests.

## Contributing

PRs welcome. Please open an issue first to discuss major changes.

## License

MIT
